Background Primary biliary cholangitis (PBC) is a cholestatic, autoimmune liver disease with the presence of characteristic autoantibodies. The aim of the work was to determine the level of antibodies directed against bacterial antigens: Chlamydia pneumoniae (anti- Cpn), Yersinia enterolitica ( anti -Y.e ), Helicobacter pylori (anti- Hp ), Mycoplasma pneumoniae (anti- Mp. ) and Escherichia coli ( E.coli ) in sera of PBC patients. We also performed in vitro studies on the impact of the bacterial peptides on the specific antigen-antibody binding. Method We screened 92 Polish PBC patients and sera samples from healthy donors and pathological controls. Autoantibodies and anti-bacterial antibodies were determined by commercially available ELISA kits. Specific inhibition of antibody binding was also detected by the in house ELISA method. Results Anti- Cpn , anti- Y. enterolitica , anti- Hp , anti- M. pneumoniae and anti- E. coli antibodies were significantly more common in the group of PBC patients than in the pathological and healthy control groups: 74%, 40%, 84%, 39% and 69% respectively. The mean level of anti- Cpn , anti- Y.e , anti- Hp and anti- M.p in the PBC group was significantly higher than those in the healthy group ( p < 0.001). and in patients with other liver diseases. In sera of patients with the presence of positive anti-mitochondrial antibodies (AMA), specific for PBC, anti-bacterial antibodies have been found in 80% vs. 50% in sera with AMA negative. We observed inhibition of specific antigen-antibody binding by the bacterial peptide: EClpP ( E. coli caseinolytic protease) and adenine glycosylase from E. coli caseinolytic protease P, ClpP Y.e from peptide of Y. enterolitica , Mp PDC from M. pneumonia peptide and adenine glycosylase of E. coli . Bacterial factors influence the specific binding of antibodies to pyruvate dehydrogenase (PDC-E2), gp210 and KLHL12 (kelch-like peptide 12) antigens. Conclusion Microbial mimics may be the major targets of cross-reactivity with human pyruvate dehydrogenase, gp210, and KLHL12 in PBC.