BACKGROUND: This study presents a comprehensive genomic analysis of NDM and OXA-48-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in the Western region of Saudi Arabia, traversed by tens of millions of Muslims from various countries annually. This significant influx of visitors invariably leads to the spread and diversity of MDR bacteria. METHODS: Genome sequencing was performed using MiSeq system of 29 CPKP isolates that were NDM and OXA-48-positive isolated from nosocomial infections and demonstrated resistance to most antibiotics, including carbapenems. RESULTS: WGS analysis showed that 12 (41.3%) isolates co-harbored bla(OXA-48,)bla(CTX-M-15) and bla(NDM) genes. Notably, 16 (55.1%) isolates were identified as high-risk clone ST14, with 50% of these isolates co-harbored bla(OXA-48), bla(NDM) and bla(CTX-M-15) genes. All ST14 isolates were identified as capsular genotype KL2 and O1/O2v1 antigen with yersiniabactin locus ypt 14 carried by ICEKp5. The two isolates were identified as ST2096/KL64 hypervirulent K. pneumoniae (hvKp) clone harboring several virulence factors, including the regulator of the mucoid phenotype rmpA2 and aerobactin (iuc-1). Interestingly, two of the hvKp ST383/KL30 isolates were resistant to all tested antimicrobials except colistin and tigecycline, and simultaneously carried numerous ESBLs and carbapenemase genes. These isolates also harbor several virulence factors such as rmpA1, rmpA2, carried on KpVP-1, and aerobactin (iuc-1). CONCLUSION: this study provides insights into the spread and prevalence of high-risk clones of CPKP in the Western region of Saudi Arabia. The ST14 high-risk clone appears to be the predominant CPKP clone in this region, posing a significant threat to public health. This study also reports the presence of two globally disseminated hypervirulent K. pneumoniae (hvKp) clones, namely ST2096 and ST383. Therefore, it is essential to improve surveillance and implement strict infection control measures in this region, which receives a substantial number of visitors to effectively monitor and reduce the spread of high-risk clones of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria, including CPKP. Genome sequencing was performed using MiSeq system of 29 CPKP isolates that were NDM and OXA-48-positive isolated from nosocomial infections and demonstrated resistance to most antibiotics, including carbapenems. WGS analysis showed that 12 (41.3%) isolates co-harbored bla(OXA-48,)bla(CTX-M-15) and bla(NDM) genes. Notably, 16 (55.1%) isolates were identified as high-risk clone ST14, with 50% of these isolates co-harbored bla(OXA-48), bla(NDM) and bla(CTX-M-15) genes. All ST14 isolates were identified as capsular genotype KL2 and O1/O2v1 antigen with yersiniabactin locus ypt 14 carried by ICEKp5. The two isolates were identified as ST2096/KL64 hypervirulent K. pneumoniae (hvKp) clone harboring several virulence factors, including the regulator of the mucoid phenotype rmpA2 and aerobactin (iuc-1). Interestingly, two of the hvKp ST383/KL30 isolates were resistant to all tested antimicrobials except colistin and tigecycline, and simultaneously carried numerous ESBLs and carbapenemase genes. These isolates also harbor several virulence factors such as rmpA1, rmpA2, carried on KpVP-1, and aerobactin (iuc-1). this study provides insights into the spread and prevalence of high-risk clones of CPKP in the Western region of Saudi Arabia. The ST14 high-risk clone appears to be the predominant CPKP clone in this region, posing a significant threat to public health. This study also reports the presence of two globally disseminated hypervirulent K. pneumoniae (hvKp) clones, namely ST2096 and ST383. Therefore, it is essential to improve surveillance and implement strict infection control measures in this region, which receives a substantial number of visitors to effectively monitor and reduce the spread of high-risk clones of antimicrobial-resistant bacteria, including CPKP.