BACKGROUND: Intestinal barrier dysfunction caused by the disrupted balance of group 3 innate lymphoid cells (ILC3)/group 1 innate lymphoid cells (ILC1) is a significant feature in the pathogenesis of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Activation of aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR) signaling contributes to the maintenance of ILC3/ILC1 balance. Wogonin, a natural flavonoid from Scutellaria baicalensis Georgi, can repair intestinal mucosal damage of IBD. However, it remains unclear if wogonin can exert a therapeutic effect by activating the AhR pathway to regulate the plasticity of ILC3/ILC1. PURPOSE: In this study, we investigated the immunomodulatory effects of wogonin on IBD and its potential mechanisms in vitro and in vivo. STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Chronic colitis was induced by four cycles of 2 % DSS treatment in mice. 20 mg kg(-1)/day wogonin was administrated by oral gavage and mice were treated intraperitoneally with 10 mg kg(-1)/2 days CH223191 to block the AhR pathway. Colon tissues were processed for histopathological examination and evaluation of the epithelial barrier function by immunohistochemistry. The activation of the AhR pathway and the plasticity of ILC3/ILC1 were determined by western blot and flow cytometry. Then, we also detected the intestinal microflora and their metabolites by 16 s sequencing and non-targeted Metabolomics analysis. Furthermore, an in vitro culture system consisting of MNK3 cells and NCM460 cells, and a CETSA assay were performed to confirm the molecular mechanism. RESULTS: Wogonin ameliorated histological severity of the colon, decreased the secretion of inflammatory factors, and increased tight junction proteins in colitis mice. These effects are associated with the tendency of conversion from ILC3 to ILC1 prevented by wogonin, which was offset by AhR antagonist CH223191. In addition, wogonin exerted the curative effect by altering gut microbiota to produce metabolites such as Kynurenic acid, and 1H-Indole-3-carboxaldehyde as AhR endogenous ligands. In vitro data further verified that wogonin as an exogenous ligand directly binds to the structural domain of AhR by CETSA. Also, the supernatant of MNK-3 cells stimulated with wogonin enhanced expression of Occludin and Claudin1 in NCM460 cells induced by LPS. CONCLUSION: Cumulatively, our study illustrated that wogonin improved the outcomes of DSS-induced chronic colitis via regulating the plasticity of ILC3/ILC1. Its specific mechanism is to binding to AhR directly, and to activate the AhR pathway indirectly by altering the tryptophan metabolisms of gut microbiota. Chronic colitis was induced by four cycles of 2 % DSS treatment in mice. 20 mg kg(-1)/day wogonin was administrated by oral gavage and mice were treated intraperitoneally with 10 mg kg(-1)/2 days CH223191 to block the AhR pathway. Colon tissues were processed for histopathological examination and evaluation of the epithelial barrier function by immunohistochemistry. The activation of the AhR pathway and the plasticity of ILC3/ILC1 were determined by western blot and flow cytometry. Then, we also detected the intestinal microflora and their metabolites by 16 s sequencing and non-targeted Metabolomics analysis. Furthermore, an in vitro culture system consisting of MNK3 cells and NCM460 cells, and a CETSA assay were performed to confirm the molecular mechanism. Wogonin ameliorated histological severity of the colon, decreased the secretion of inflammatory factors, and increased tight junction proteins in colitis mice. These effects are associated with the tendency of conversion from ILC3 to ILC1 prevented by wogonin, which was offset by AhR antagonist CH223191. In addition, wogonin exerted the curative effect by altering gut microbiota to produce metabolites such as Kynurenic acid, and 1H-Indole-3-carboxaldehyde as AhR endogenous ligands. In vitro data further verified that wogonin as an exogenous ligand directly binds to the structural domain of AhR by CETSA. Also, the supernatant of MNK-3 cells stimulated with wogonin enhanced expression of Occludin and Claudin1 in NCM460 cells induced by LPS. Cumulatively, our study illustrated that wogonin improved the outcomes of DSS-induced chronic colitis via regulating the plasticity of ILC3/ILC1. Its specific mechanism is to binding to AhR directly, and to activate the AhR pathway indirectly by altering the tryptophan metabolisms of gut microbiota.