Abstract Background Numerous observational studies have identified a linkage between the gut microbiota and gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). However, a clear causative association between the gut microbiota and GERD has yet to be definitively ascertained, given the presence of confounding variables. Methods The genome-wide association study (GWAS) pertaining to the microbiome, conducted by the MiBioGen consortium and comprising 18,340 samples from 24 population-based cohorts, served as the exposure dataset. Summary-level data for GERD were obtained from a recent publicly available genome-wide association involving 78 707 GERD cases and 288 734 controls of European descent. The inverse variance-weighted (IVW) method was performed as a primary analysis, the other four methods were used as supporting analyses. Furthermore, sensitivity analyses encompassing Cochran’s Q statistics, MR-Egger intercept, MR-PRESSO global test, and leave-one-out methodology were carried out to identify potential heterogeneity and horizontal pleiotropy. Ultimately, a reverse MR assessment was conducted to investigate the potential for reverse causation. Results The IVW method’s findings suggested protective roles against GERD for the Family Clostridiales Vadin BB60 group ( P = 0.027), Genus Lachnospiraceae UCG004 (P = 0.026), Genus Methanobrevibacter ( P = 0.026), and Phylum Actinobacteria (P = 0.019). In contrast, Class Mollicutes ( P = 0.037), Genus Anaerostipes (P = 0.049), and Phylum Tenericutes ( P = 0.024) emerged as potential GERD risk factors. In assessing reverse causation with GERD as the exposure and gut microbiota as the outcome, the findings indicate that GERD leads to dysbiosis in 13 distinct gut microbiota classes. The MR results’ reliability was confirmed by thorough assessments of heterogeneity and pleiotropy. Conclusions For the first time, the MR analysis indicates a genetic link between gut microbiota abundance changes and GERD risk. This not only substantiates the potential of intestinal microecological therapy for GERD, but also establishes a basis for advanced research into the role of intestinal microbiota in the etiology of GERD. Keywords: causal association, gastroesophageal reflux disease, genome-wide association study, comprehensive bidirectional mendelian randomization, gut microbiota