Abstract Elizabethkingia meningoseptica is an uncommon nosocomial pathogen that causes meningitis, pneumonia, and sepsis in neonates and in immunocompromised individuals. It exhibits resistance to many commonly employed first-line antibiotics used to treat gram-negative pathogens. Herein, we present three cases of late-onset sepsis with multi-drug resistant (MDR) Elizabethkingia meningoseptica in high-risk neonates. Case 1 was a one-day-old preterm low-birth-weight infant who presented with respiratory distress syndrome and septic shock. The patient was intubated and administered empirical broad-spectrum antibiotics and antifungal agents. Blood culture grew Candida krusei, hence Amphotericin B was initiated. Repeat blood culture on day 27 showed gram-negative bacilli, identified as Elizabethkingia meningoseptica by MALDI-TOF . Antibiotic susceptibility testing (AST) revealed resistance to Piperacillin/Tazobactam, but sensitivity to Vancomycin, Levofloxacin, and Minocycline. IV Vancomycin was administered, which resulted in clinical improvement and negative blood culture results. Case 2 was an eleven-day-old preterm, low-birth-weight baby who presented with fever. Initial investigations revealed normal complete blood counts (CBC) parameters and elevated CRP levels. Blood and CSF cultures isolated Elizabethkingia meningoseptica with a similar AST pattern. Intravenous Ciprofloxacin was initiated with clinical improvement and negative follow-up blood cultures. Case 3 was a one-day-old preterm baby, appropriate-to-gestational age, presenting with respiratory distress syndrome. The infant was intubated and started on inotropic support and intravenous antibiotics. Blood cultures on day 4 showed Elizabethkingia meningoseptica and Vancomycin was started. Follow-up cultures on days 6 and 14 grew Acinetobacter baumannii. A combination of Levofloxacin and Colistin was added, and blood cultures were negative after seven days, with clinical improvement. Elizabethkingia meningoseptica is a significant cause of hospital-acquired infections, especially in Neonatal Intensive Care Unit (NICU), leading to outbreaks. Clinicians must have a high degree of suspicion of E. meningoseptica for gram-negative bacilli causing sepsis and meningitis in high-risk patients. Recent technological advances have enabled accurate speciation to guide therapy and reduce morbidity and mortality rates. Keywords: Elizabethkingia meningoseptica, late-onset, sepsis, meningitis, Multi-drug resistance