THE PURPOSE: Of the study was to assess oral microbiocenosis changes in participants of microgravity modeling in a control group and using prophylaxis in the form of a probiotic supplement with 1.0.10(9) CFU of Streptococcus salivarius strain in one lozenge and a dairy product containing not less than 1.10(7) CFU of Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus strain in one gram. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study included 15 participants aged 25-40 years from the "Dry Immersion-2018" experiment. Five participants were included in the control group, while 10 participants were divided into 3 prophylactic groups: group I with 3 people (1 glass of dairy after evening teethbrushing and 1 glass of dairy after breakfast and teethbrushing). Group II with 3 people dissolving 1 probiotic lozenge at bedtime after teethbrushing and 1 lozenge after breakfast and teethbrushing. Group III with 4 people tested the synergism of protective streptococcus strains according to the scheme: 1 glass of dairy before nightsleep after teethbrushing and 2 probiotic lozenges under the tongue during the day. Changes were assessed by the dynamics of the Eubiotic Index and the Community Periodontal Index of Treatment Need (CPITN). RESULTS: A significant deterioration of the periodontal condition was recorded in the control group: a growth of supragingival and subgingival tartar, bleeding gums, and a growth of pathogenic microflora. In all three prophylactic groups, a positive shift was detected in Eubiotic Index. In groups I and II there were no changes on CPITN index scale, and in group III an improvement in periodontal condition was recorded. CONCLUSION: The probiotic drug showed a positive prophylactic effect and found synergy with the dairy product based on the Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus strain. The study included 15 participants aged 25-40 years from the "Dry Immersion-2018" experiment. Five participants were included in the control group, while 10 participants were divided into 3 prophylactic groups: group I with 3 people (1 glass of dairy after evening teethbrushing and 1 glass of dairy after breakfast and teethbrushing). Group II with 3 people dissolving 1 probiotic lozenge at bedtime after teethbrushing and 1 lozenge after breakfast and teethbrushing. Group III with 4 people tested the synergism of protective streptococcus strains according to the scheme: 1 glass of dairy before nightsleep after teethbrushing and 2 probiotic lozenges under the tongue during the day. Changes were assessed by the dynamics of the Eubiotic Index and the Community Periodontal Index of Treatment Need (CPITN). A significant deterioration of the periodontal condition was recorded in the control group: a growth of supragingival and subgingival tartar, bleeding gums, and a growth of pathogenic microflora. In all three prophylactic groups, a positive shift was detected in Eubiotic Index. In groups I and II there were no changes on CPITN index scale, and in group III an improvement in periodontal condition was recorded. The probiotic drug showed a positive prophylactic effect and found synergy with the dairy product based on the Streptococcus salivarius subsp. thermophilus strain.