OBJECTIVE: In recent years, Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) has been increasingly associated with extra-digestive manifestations, including scleroderma, rheumatism, and blood system diseases. Iron deficiency anemia (IDA) is a common chronic disease worldwide, with an insidious onset, but as the disease progresses, it will eventually seriously affect the quality of life of patients. The aim of our study was to investigate the relationship between H. pylori infection, iron deficiency (ID), and IDA, and to identify potential serological markers. PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of 998 individuals who had regular physical examinations at Beijing Shijitan Hospital from January 2021 to March 2022. We detected H. pylori infection by the 13C breath test, and recorded the patient's serum iron, ferritin, transferrin saturation, blood count, etc. We assessed the association between IDA and H. pylori infection and related serum markers using logistic regression and multiple linear regression. Afterward, we analyzed the correlation between sex and potential serum biomarkers. RESULTS: Among all study participants, 57.5% of patients had H. pylori and 42.5% did not have H. pylori. ID and IDA were significantly associated with H. pylori infection in women (p=0.031). This association persisted after further adjustment for sex, metabolic variables, liver function, and kidney function. Fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, and uric acid may be associated with IDA. CONCLUSIONS: In women, H. pylori infection is associated with ID and IDA. The relationship between H. pylori and IDA may be mediated by glycometabolism, lipid metabolism, and uric acid metabolism. We conducted a cross-sectional study of 998 individuals who had regular physical examinations at Beijing Shijitan Hospital from January 2021 to March 2022. We detected H. pylori infection by the 13C breath test, and recorded the patient's serum iron, ferritin, transferrin saturation, blood count, etc. We assessed the association between IDA and H. pylori infection and related serum markers using logistic regression and multiple linear regression. Afterward, we analyzed the correlation between sex and potential serum biomarkers. Among all study participants, 57.5% of patients had H. pylori and 42.5% did not have H. pylori. ID and IDA were significantly associated with H. pylori infection in women (p=0.031). This association persisted after further adjustment for sex, metabolic variables, liver function, and kidney function. Fasting blood glucose, triglycerides, and uric acid may be associated with IDA. In women, H. pylori infection is associated with ID and IDA. The relationship between H. pylori and IDA may be mediated by glycometabolism, lipid metabolism, and uric acid metabolism.