Abstract Objective To estimate the prevalence of iron deficiency (ID) and anemia and study their main distal and proximal protective and risk factors among Nunavimmiut 16 years and older in 2017. Methods In a cross-sectional participatory survey of 831 women and 436 men from the Qanuilirpitaa? 2017 Nunavik Inuit Health Survey, venous blood samples were collected to measure various indicators of iron status and anemia as well as biomarkers of nutritional and inflammatory status and contaminant exposures. Sociodemographic, food security status, anthropometric, lifestyle, dietary, and health data were collected using questionnaires, clinical sessions, and a medical chart review. ID and anemia diagnoses were based on serum ferritin (SF) and hemoglobin (Hb), respectively. Multiple regressions were used to assess correlates of anemia and iron status. Results Prevalence of ID was highest among women of childbearing age (16–49 years old, 33%) and anemia among adults aged 50 years and older (31%). These estimates are prone to biases due to the relatively low participation rate (37%). Serum vitamin D, omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acid content of erythrocyte membranes, blood selenium, inflammation, higher socioeconomic status (SES), obesity, and alcohol consumption were all positively associated with SF, while Helicobacter pylori infection and a recent pregnancy were negatively associated with Hb among women of childbearing age. Among older adults, food insecurity was associated with lower SF. Conclusion While data reported here provide some indication of an improvement since the previous survey conducted in 2004, additional efforts should be devoted to further increasing the SES and access to country foods and nutritious market foods in this population, the two main protective factors against ID and anemia identified in the present study. Supplementary Information The online version contains supplementary material available at 10.17269/s41997-023-00775-4. Keywords: Anaemia, Iron deficiency, Haemoglobin, Ferritin, Inuit, Nunavik