OBJECTIVE: Study on the impact of medical wound dressing compositions on reference strains of microorganisms in vitro conditions. MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study compared the antimicrobial activity of three types of dressing materials (DM): iodoform gauze bandage, DM with furagin and sodium alginate, DM from hydrogel with dimexide and silver nitrates. Gauze bandage with chlorhexidine was used as a control. Their impact on various strains of bacteria and fungi was investigated by measuring zones of growth inhibition of microorganisms over several days at different temperatures. RESULTS: Iodoform showed short-term action: the inhibition of microorganism growth ranged from 6 to 9 mm during the first few days, and then disappeared. The sample with furagin and sodium alginate demonstrated stable activity throughout the entire period; the largest inhibition of growth was observed for S. aureus (up to 13.5 mm) and P. aeruginosa (up to 12 mm), and the smallest for C. albicans (5.5 mm). The hydrogel with dimexide and silver nitrate was the most effective, showing antimicrobial activity against all strains, especially against C. albicans (up to 12 mm). The control bandage with chlorhexidine was twice as effective as the furagin sample in antimicrobial activity against E. cloacae and S. pyogenes and on average 2.6 mm against P. aeruginosa. CONCLUSION: The hydrogel from sodium alginate with dimexide and silver nitrates is effective against all the studied microorganisms, including yeast fungi of the genus Candida. The antimicrobial activity remains for 7 days, which can reduce the frequency of dressing changes and minimize wound surface trauma, improving the quality and safety of medical care. The study compared the antimicrobial activity of three types of dressing materials (DM): iodoform gauze bandage, DM with furagin and sodium alginate, DM from hydrogel with dimexide and silver nitrates. Gauze bandage with chlorhexidine was used as a control. Their impact on various strains of bacteria and fungi was investigated by measuring zones of growth inhibition of microorganisms over several days at different temperatures. Iodoform showed short-term action: the inhibition of microorganism growth ranged from 6 to 9 mm during the first few days, and then disappeared. The sample with furagin and sodium alginate demonstrated stable activity throughout the entire period; the largest inhibition of growth was observed for S. aureus (up to 13.5 mm) and P. aeruginosa (up to 12 mm), and the smallest for C. albicans (5.5 mm). The hydrogel with dimexide and silver nitrate was the most effective, showing antimicrobial activity against all strains, especially against C. albicans (up to 12 mm). The control bandage with chlorhexidine was twice as effective as the furagin sample in antimicrobial activity against E. cloacae and S. pyogenes and on average 2.6 mm against P. aeruginosa. The hydrogel from sodium alginate with dimexide and silver nitrates is effective against all the studied microorganisms, including yeast fungi of the genus Candida. The antimicrobial activity remains for 7 days, which can reduce the frequency of dressing changes and minimize wound surface trauma, improving the quality and safety of medical care.