Objective: Describe associations between dental caries and dental plaque microbiome, by dentition and family membership. Methods: This cross-sectional analysis included 584 participants in the Center for Oral Health Research in Appalachia Cohort 1 (COHRA1). We sequenced the 16S ribosomal RNA gene (V4 region) of frozen supragingival plaque, collected 10 y prior, from 185 caries-active (enamel and dentinal) and 565 caries-free (no lesions) teeth using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Sequences were filtered using the R DADA2 package and assigned taxonomy using the Human Oral Microbiome Database. Results: Microbiomes of caries-active and caries-free teeth were most similar in primary dentition and least similar in permanent dentition, but caries-active teeth were significantly less diverse than caries-free teeth in all dentition types. Streptococcus mutans had greater relative abundance in caries-active than caries-free teeth in all dentition types ( P < 0.01), as did Veillonella dispar in primary and mixed dentition ( P < 0.01). Fusobacterium sp. HMT 203 had significantly higher relative abundance in caries-free than caries-active teeth in all dentition types ( P < 0.01). In a linear mixed model adjusted for confounders, the relative abundance of S. mutans was significantly greater in plaque from caries-active than caries-free teeth ( P < 0.001), and the relative abundance of Fusobacterium sp. HMT 203 was significantly lower in plaque from caries-active than caries-free teeth ( P < 0.001). Adding an effect for family improved model fit for Fusobacterium sp. HMT 203 but not S. mutans . Conclusions: The diversity of supragingival plaque composition from caries-active and caries-free teeth changed with dentition, but S. mutans was positively and Fusobacterium sp. HMT 203 was negatively associated with caries regardless of dentition. There was a strong effect of family on the associations of Fusobacterium sp. HMT 203 with the caries-free state, but this was not true for S. mutans and the caries-active state. Knowledge Transfer Statement: Patients’ and dentists’ concerns about transmission of bacteria within families causing caries should be tempered by the evidence that some shared bacteria may contribute to good oral health.